# Looking for Patterns

To a newcomer to digital preservation, it must seem like every question they have has one of two answers: _"OAIS"_, or _"it depends..."_. Standards like the Open Archival Information Systems reference model can provide useful high-level frameworks, but cannot provide concrete guidance when it comes to how to actually implement a digital preservation program. At the other extreme, over the years the digital preservation community has done a good job of sharing information on local implementations and workflows (through conferences like [iPres](https://ipres-conference.org/), and via things the [Community Owned Workflows](https://coptr.digipres.org/index.php/Workflow:Community_Owned_Workflows) wiki). These individual reports are a rich source of information, but synthesising this information is a very difficult challenge for a newcomer to take on, as they are least well equipped to know how relevant or current any particular piece of work might be.

The [NDSA Levels of Digital Preservation](https://ndsa.org/publications/levels-of-digital-preservation/) have helped bridge this gap from the top down, by providing a concrete roadmap of goals. But any such universal path necessarily must remain abstracted away from the details that depend on context. And working from the bottom up, summaries of recent work, like the [Digital Preservation Coalition's Technology Watch Publications](https://www.dpconline.org/digipres/discover-good-practice/tech-watch-reports) provide very helpful in-depth summaries of known areas of interest.  But this is still a lot to work through, and it remains difficult to quickly find and filter through the wide range of information on different approaches, and understand how the details depend on your context. 

Is there some complementary format or framework that would allow us to navigate this gap, providing some kind of map that helps us find our place, and understand how our work should adapt to our context?  In short, if the answer is _"it depends..."_, then the next question is _"what does it depend on?"_.

Here, I propose that a practice-driven approach is needed in order to answer this question. Specifically, one where concrete experiences of implementing digital preservation processes are drawn together based on common patterns, thereby allowing the common contextual factors to be revealed. What follows are the results of analysing one aspect of digital preservation -- the overall flow of information through the archive -- within this _"grassroots"_ framework. By publishing this here, I hope to get constructive feedback on whether this approach is useful, especially from newcomers to digital preservation. This will help shape future work on completing the analyses of a wider range of aspects of digital preservation.