Notes from Newspaper Digitised Masters TAB
==========================================

OCR ---


 - Use Hough-style algorithm plus typeface?
 - Printers used multiple letter widths to aid justification.
 - Use couplet analysis to determine language?
 - Are candidate letters kept anywhere?
 - Seems strange to loose the contiguity of letters - sets of
simple shapes, not blocks.


Layout Analysis

----------



 - This 'semantic' segmentation is perhaps harder than the OCR
bit.


QA Of Digitsed Masters

----------



 - Use linear Hough over segments to assess warp?
 - Take scan at high res, fix problems, and down-sample? e.g.
fixing page roll.
 - DPI - 'as small as the smallest stroke' - can this be
estimated?
 - Test readability using 'Humans', e.g. Amazon Turk.
 - We can look at everything, if we let our users do it, and tell
us if there are problems.
 - SSIM and MS-SSIM - we need implementations.
 - PSNR - does the value shift with image size, due to the
limitations on the smallest possible amount of change being a
larger percentage for smaller images?
 - Noise Reduction:

   - Is the noise model scale-invariant? It was a Gaussian,
essentially, with a threshold.
   - Does NR+INCOMP beat COMP?
   - NR can be tuned locally, i.e. dense regions can be left
untouched.
   - Preferable compared with potential complexity of
Multi-resolution files? Fat pixels? ** Acceptable noise: how to
compare image noise with capture noise. How to QA? MP3 problem?
Noise reduction will always remove the data that happens to look
like noise. ok?




Semi-Vector? Multi-bit-depth files?




 - Use compression-decompression cycles to analyse stability of
noise?





 - JPEG 2000

   - Is conversion to Lum/Chrominance/etc lossy? Surely not.
   - JPEG 2000 uses scale-invariant (wavelet) transform, but
Newspapers have a characteristic length scale?
   - Minimally lossy means accepting floating-point math. Minimal 1
or 2 points of Greyscale changes on 30% of the pixels. Is
float/double/quad well defined?
   - As you push up the resolution of a file, how does the LLCOMP
size come out? Stable?
   - Is JPEG-LS better? Is it better enough?
   - Is Adobe support for JPEG2000 poor? Their code is poor?
   - TIFF has weak ICC support?
   - JP2 only allows ICC profiles, no ProPhotoRGB, AdobeRGB?
   - NO JPEG SUPPORT IN PDF/A-2?!?!? Surely just added
JPEG2000.


 - NPDP - Can we have the full list of parameters please?


Capture

----------



 - Important to estimate the noise in the capture process, e.g.
ISO noise and (0.2mm) shift was rather high for our camera
setup.
 - Take multiple shots and average them? Link to the space
IR-imaging process.
 - Can camera or scanner noise be modelled more precisely?


Digitisation Process

----------



 - BL: Some confusion over the overall process. e.g. borders
chopped, saving 20% in space, which seems rather high, and may be
w.r.t uncomp TIFF.
 - BL: Need the people doing capture and QA to believe in this
stuff, and be able to sort it out. Process is a littel conflicted
at present.
 - At a fixed MB size, I'd rather pump up the resolution than keep
the capture noise.
 - Push vendors to reduce the noise floor in their capture
hardware?




