# What Should DOPWG Do? #


I think that the DOPWG could attempt to build a common
understanding roughly as follows:


 - Pool the definitions of 'types' and 'intellectual properties'
that have been generated by previous TB deliverables and other
projects outside Planets.
 - [
http://www.planets-project.eu/private/pages/wiki/index.php/List_of_Digital_Object_Types_and_their_Associated_Properties][1] 
 - [http://www.significantproperties.org.uk/][2] 
 - And many more, I assume.
 - Choose a single use-case, and focus on what we really need for
that.
 - e.g. I want to use the Testbed to explore ways of preserving X,
where X is a set of real files we have access to.
 - Consider the options for X, and choose one or two preservation
actions.
 - Discuss what the 'intellectual properties' related to this
use-case actually mean.
 - Turn them into repeatably measurable properties, by checking
that we all agree on what the property definition means and
implies.
 - e.g. Does 'preserve the paragraphs' mean 'preserve the way the
paragraphs looks' or 'preserve the paragraphs as semantic
entities'.
 - e.g. if we want to 'preserve the way the paragraphs looks', do
we need to decide more precisely what this means?
 - Consider whether these properties refer to the comparison
between digital objects, or to something that can be extracted from
digital objects.
 - If and when agreement is reached, capture these properties in
the Testbed ontology.
 - Try to connect these 'intellectual' properties and types to the
XCDL notion of the properties of digital object 'types'.
 - Note that TB and PC are using 'digital object type' to mean
VERY different things.
 - If and when agreement is reached, capture these properties in
the Testbed ontology.
 - Consider defining other properties that are related to
DOP:
 - Metadata property definitions, e.g. a property that means 'this
is a valid object', a property that means 'this object has this
format'.
 - e.g. how to document the context of a performance (technical
enviroment properties).
 - e.g. what are the properties of preservation services that are
of interest.


EMAILED: The above has been sent around for discussion.

# Other Ideas #



 - Formats are what can be shared well.
 - 'Read'/'Archive' version, versus 'Edit' version.
 - Lawyers are pricing themselves out of the market.
 - Coping with change, innovation v. compatability.
 - Do you have a copy of the source?
 - How to preserve dynamic resources?
 - The abstract model, the ontology, and use cases.
 - Faceted properties. ** GeoTIFF? Extend 'format' property to AND
and multi as OR?
 - Amsterdam group, protoge.
 - LOC shared vocabularies.
 - Properties: _* Properties of Format._* Properties of Instance
of the Format. _* Conservation of Properties, aggregated across
experiments._* Articles, as collections of experiments, aggregated
results, plots and text. ** Articles as pay-to-publish journal
content.** Published articles making to the public pages, and thus
Google.


[http://etherpad.com/9YjJuKNzUH][3] 

TB p3, Format in/out intersect/out. Filter down, I only want to
note colour profiles. De-select properties. Automatically run
tools,



  [1]: http://www.planets-project.eu/private/pages/wiki/index.php/List_of_Digital_Object_Types_and_their_Associated_Properties
  [2]: http://www.significantproperties.org.uk/
  [3]: http://etherpad.com/9YjJuKNzUH
